Deprecated react removal (#45426)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/material/guides/minimizing-bundle-size/minimizing-bundle-size.md

Future changes to the library's internal structure could break these paths. `babel-plugin-direct-import` allows for granular control over what gets imported, but it comes with the potential risk of relying on internal library paths. This may fail in future versions if the package is updated to use the `exports` field in `package.json`, which could block access to internal paths like this.
:::

Material UI supports tree shaking out of the box when importing from specific paths (such as `@mui/material/Button`), so this configuration is optional and primarily useful if you want to enforce modular imports.

Vite doesn't require extra Babel configuration by default because it uses esbuild for fast bundling and minification.

> But if you need to customize Babel (for example, to use babel-plugin-import), you can follow these steps:

Reviewer: `babel-plugin-import` is not used below.

Author: it should be babel-plugin-transform-import

> 1. Install dependencies:

Reviewer: I'm not sure this works. Can you share a reproduction where all these steps succeed? I think Vite uses the esm bundle by default, but I'm not certain. cc @Janpot

Author: Thanks for the feedback! You’re correct. Vite uses ESM bundles by default, so tree-shaking works out of the box without needing extra Babel plugins.

The Babel setup I shared is mostly useful if:

- I want to strictly enforce modular imports in large codebases (to prevent developers from accidentally importing full packages).
- I am migrating an older project or have a mix of imports that aren't cleanly tree-shaken yet.

In a fresh Vite project, just doing modular imports like: 

```javascript
import { Button } from '@mui/material';
```

is already sufficient for tree-shaking, and Vite + esbuild will produce a minimal optimized bundle.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the problem is tree-shaking during production builds. That should be covered regardless of whether you import top-level or not. It's mostly about avoiding importing from barrel files. This can greatly decrease performance of a dev server. A problem which also exists in vite: https://github.com/vitejs/vite/issues/8237

Personally I'm not hugely in favor for recommending babel plugins that mess with our imports. I'd just recommend upgrading to Next.js > 13.5. And really push users towards avoiding barrel imports altogether.

We could also suggest them to make vscode not auto-import from top-level:

```tsx
// .vscode/settings.json
  "typescript.preferences.autoImportSpecifierExcludeRegexes": ["^@mui/[^\/]+$"]
```

Author: @Janpot Thanks for clarifying. That makes a lot of sense.

I agree that avoiding barrel imports directly is a cleaner and more stable long-term solution.

I’ll update base on your recommendation

Author: @Janpot will the below be a good replacement for the whole ### Option two: use a Babel plugin

In most modern setups (Vite, Webpack 5+, Next.js 13.5+), tree-shaking already works out of the box, and production bundle size is optimized automatically.

However, in development mode, importing from top-level barrels like @mui/material or @mui/icons-material can slow down dev server startup time.
To avoid this:

Prefer direct path imports:

```
import Button from '@mui/material/Button';
```

instead of

```
import { Button } from '@mui/material';
```

Avoid deep internal imports `(@mui/material/Tabs/TabIndicator)` which can break in future releases.

If you're using Next.js 13.5 or later, `optimizePackageImports` automatically optimizes imports for you, no extra configuration is needed.

Optional (recommended): Configure your editor to discourage auto-importing from top-level barrels:

```
// .vscode/settings.json
{
  "typescript.preferences.autoImportSpecifierExcludeRegexes": ["^@mui/[^\\/]+$"]
}
```

This ensures developers are nudged toward direct imports, improving dev server performance without needing Babel plugins.

Using Babel plugins like `babel-plugin-import` is no longer recommended unless you are working in a legacy project where stricter modular import enforcement is needed.

Reviewer: I wouldn’t replace the entire “Option two: use a Babel plugin” section. I’d keep the original content and avoid adding all the new material.

Author: @ZeeshanTamboli, so you suggest, the content remains as it is without any adjustment. Leaving it as it is currently here https://mui.com/material-ui/guides/minimizing-bundle-size/

Future changes to the library's internal structure could break these paths. `babel-plugin-direct-import` allows for granular control over what gets imported, but it comes with the potential risk of relying on internal library paths. This may fail in future versions if the package is updated to use the `exports` field in `package.json`, which could block access to internal paths like this.
:::

> > Note that Material UI supports tree shaking out of the box when importing from specific paths (e.g. @mui/material/Button), so this configuration is optional and primarily useful if you want to enforce modular imports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Material UI supports tree shaking out of the box when importing from specific paths (such as `@mui/material/Button`), so this configuration is optional and primarily useful if you want to enforce modular imports.
```

> Vite doesn’t require extra Babel configuration by default because it uses esbuild for fast bundling and minification. However, if you need to customize Babel (for example, to use babel-plugin-import), here’s a way to do it:

Reviewer 3: One sentence per line—makes it easier to do line-by-line reviews

```suggestion
Vite doesn’t require extra Babel configuration by default because it uses esbuild for fast bundling and minification. 
But if you need to customize Babel (for example, to use babel-plugin-import), you can follow these steps:
```

> Install Dependencies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install dependencies:
```

```bash
npm install --save-dev @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react babel-plugin-transform-imports
```

> Create a `.babelrc` file in the root directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Create a `.babelrc` file in the root directory:
```

```json
{
  "presets": ["@babel/preset-env", "@babel/preset-react"],
  "plugins": [
    [
      "babel-plugin-transform-imports",
      {
        "@mui/material": {
          "transform": "@mui/material/${member}",
          "preventFullImport": true
        },
        "@mui/icons-material": {
          "transform": "@mui/icons-material/${member}",
          "preventFullImport": true
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

> Update your `vite.config.js` to use the Babel plugin:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Update your `vite.config.js` to use the Babel plugin:
```
